PTI TAGGER — SYSTEM GUIDE
=========================

1. WHAT THE SYSTEM IS
---------------------

PTI Tagger is a fleet-management website and Telegram bot used to:

- Register truck/unit Telegram groups.
- Associate a driver with each unit.
- Collect weekly PTI photos or videos.
- Copy PTI media into one central Telegram archive group.
- Track which units submitted a PTI during the current week.
- Review PTI submissions and leave fleet notes.
- Approve a PTI or request that the driver resend it.
- Notify one missing driver or all missing drivers.
- Automatically remind missing drivers at most twice per week, with at least
  three days between automatic reminders.
- Highlight units whose Telegram group name contains Inactive, Hometime, or
  Terminated so fleet staff know the unit may need reassignment.


2. MAIN PARTS
-------------

Website
  The website is the fleet administration panel. It shows assigned units,
  drivers, weekly PTI status, last PTI time, last notification time, and review
  records.

Telegram bot
  The bot registers unit groups, accepts PTI submissions, sends reminders, and
  posts resend requests.

PostgreSQL
  PostgreSQL stores units, registrations, authorization codes, PTI submissions,
  review notes, notification history, and reminder settings.

Archive supergroup
  This is the central Telegram group where all accepted PTI photos and videos
  are stored. It must be a supergroup so the website can generate Telegram
  message links.

Railway
  Railway hosts the production website, bot, reminder scheduler, and PostgreSQL
  connection. Database migrations run automatically during deployment and
  production startup.


3. WEBSITE LOGIN
----------------

The website is protected by a username and password.

Railway variables:

  WEB_ADMIN_USERNAME
  WEB_ADMIN_PASSWORD

Opening the website while signed out redirects to /login. A successful login
creates a secure HTTP-only session lasting 12 hours. Use the Sign out button to
end the session.

The /api/health endpoint remains public so Railway can verify that PostgreSQL is
connected and the required database tables exist.


4. ADDING UNITS
---------------

Single unit

1. Sign in to the website.
2. Select + Add Unit.
3. Enter the unit number and company.
4. Save the unit.

Bulk units

1. Select Bulk Add.
2. Enter one unit per line using one of these formats:

     6306, PTI
     6307<TAB>PTI
     6308 PTI

3. Data can be pasted as two columns from Excel or Google Sheets.
4. Review validation errors, then submit the batch.

A batch can contain up to 500 units. Units that already exist are skipped
safely.


5. REGISTERING A UNIT TELEGRAM GROUP
------------------------------------

1. Find an unregistered unit on the Assigned Units page.
2. Select Generate Code.
3. Copy the generated /activate command.
4. Add the production Telegram bot to the truck's Telegram group.
5. Disable Group Privacy for the bot through BotFather if the bot must read
   replies and media.
6. Send the activation command in the truck group. Example:

     /activate 915413 @driver_username

The six-digit code expires after five minutes and can only be used once.

After successful activation, the system stores:

- Unit and company.
- Telegram group ID and title.
- Driver Telegram username.
- Driver numeric Telegram ID when Telegram provides it.
- Driver first and last name when Telegram provides them.
- Registration date and history.

If Telegram supplies only a username, the website displays @username in the
Driver column.

Useful group command:

  /status

This shows whether the group is registered and which unit/driver is assigned.


6. SUBMITTING A PTI
-------------------

Normal workflow

1. A dispatcher or group member sends a new photo or video in the registered
   unit group.
2. Reply directly to that photo or video with:

     /pti

3. The bot uploads the detected media to the archive supergroup.
4. The bot posts submission information with the archived media:

   - Unique PTI ID, such as PTI-000001.
   - Unit number.
   - Company.
   - Driver.
   - Source Telegram group.

5. The bot confirms the submission in the truck group.
6. The website shows the PTI as pending review.

The bot uses the Telegram media file ID rather than forwarding the source
message. This allows the system to handle messages that Telegram does not permit
the bot to forward.

If a submission fails, the same media message can be retried with /pti after the
underlying problem is corrected.


7. REVIEWING A PTI
------------------

1. Open PTI Review on the website.
2. Find the submission by PTI ID, unit, company, driver, or status.
3. Open its Telegram message link when available.
4. Review the photo or video.
5. Choose one of the review results:

   All good
     Marks the submission approved.

   Request resend
     Records the fleet member's note and sends the request back to the
     registered unit Telegram group.

When the replacement photo/video is submitted, it is connected to the earlier
resend request in the database.


8. WEEKLY TRACKING
------------------

The Assigned Units page shows:

- Assigned unit count.
- Units that sent a PTI this week.
- Units still missing a PTI.
- Units that are not registered.
- Driver and Telegram group.
- Last successful PTI date.
- Last notification date.

The week begins on Monday according to the database server's weekly date logic.
A submission counts as sent after the media is successfully archived.

Available filters include company, registered status, sent this week, and
missing PTI. The search field searches units, drivers, and group names.


9. DRIVER NOTIFICATIONS
-----------------------

Individual notification

Select Notify beside a registered unit. The reminder is posted to that unit's
Telegram group.

Bulk notification

Select Notify all missing. The bot sends a reminder to every eligible registered
unit that has not submitted a PTI during the current week.

Automatic notification

- The bot checks for missing PTIs every hour.
- A unit is not notified again within three days.
- Automatic reminders are limited to two per week.
- Reminders stop after the unit submits its weekly PTI.
- Groups marked Inactive, Hometime, or Terminated are skipped.

Driver mention

The bot tags @driver_username when available. If there is no username but the
driver's numeric Telegram ID is known, it creates a clickable Telegram mention.


10. CUSTOMIZING THE REMINDER MESSAGE
------------------------------------

Only the Telegram account configured in this variable can change reminders:

  TELEGRAM_ADMIN_USERNAME

Enter the username without the @ symbol. Configuration must be performed in a
private chat with the bot.

Commands:

  /adminhelp
    Shows reminder configuration instructions.

  /setreminder MESSAGE
    Changes the reminder text and keeps the existing attachment.

  /reminderconfig
    Shows the current template and attachment.

  /clearremindermedia
    Removes the configured photo or video while keeping the text.

Available placeholders:

  @driver
    Driver username mention or clickable numeric-ID mention.

  @lastNotified
    Day the unit was last notified, or Never.

  @lastPTI
    Day the unit last submitted a successful PTI, or Never.

  @unit
    Unit number.

  @company
    Company name.

Example template:

  Hello @driver,

  Unit @unit still needs its weekly PTI.
  Last PTI: @lastPTI
  Last notified: @lastNotified

  Please send a photo or video and reply to it with /pti.

Adding a reminder photo or video

1. Open a private chat with the bot from the authorized admin account.
2. Send the desired photo or video.
3. Put the reminder template in the media caption.
4. Reply to that media with /setreminder.

Telegram file IDs are tied to a specific bot. If the Telegram bot token is
replaced with a newly created bot, the reminder media must be uploaded again.


11. INACTIVE, HOMETIME, AND TERMINATED GROUPS
---------------------------------------------

If the stored Telegram group title contains any of these words, ignoring case:

  Inactive
  Hometime
  Terminated

The Assigned Units row is highlighted red and shows Reassign. Automatic and
bulk reminders skip these groups. Group-title changes are synchronized when the
bot receives Telegram's new-title event.


12. TELEGRAM BOT SETUP
----------------------

Create and manage the bot through @BotFather.

Important settings:

- Add the bot to every registered truck group.
- Add the bot to the PTI archive supergroup.
- Allow it to send messages, photos, and videos.
- Disable Group Privacy if it needs to receive replied media from group users.
- After changing Group Privacy, remove and re-add the bot to existing groups if
  Telegram does not apply the change immediately.

Bot usernames cannot be changed after creation. The display name can be changed
through BotFather. A different @username requires creating a new bot and
updating TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN.

When replacing the bot:

1. Update TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN in Railway.
2. Add the new bot to every truck group and the archive group.
3. Disable Group Privacy for the new bot.
4. Confirm the archive group ID with /chatid.
5. Redeploy Railway.
6. Upload reminder media again.
7. Keep the Railway service at one replica to avoid Telegram polling conflicts.


13. ARCHIVE GROUP SETUP
-----------------------

The central archive must be a Telegram supergroup.

1. Add the current production bot to the archive group.
2. Give it permission to send messages and media.
3. Send /chatid in the archive group.
4. Copy the returned ID into Railway as PTI_ARCHIVE_CHAT_ID.

A supergroup ID normally begins with -100. The configured archive ID determines
where all PTI media is stored and how the website generates Telegram links.


14. RAILWAY VARIABLES
---------------------

Required production variables:

  DATABASE_URL
    Railway PostgreSQL connection. Usually configured as a Railway reference:
    ${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}

  TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN
    Current production bot token from BotFather.

  TELEGRAM_ADMIN_USERNAME
    Telegram username allowed to configure reminders, without @.

  PTI_ARCHIVE_CHAT_ID
    Numeric archive supergroup ID beginning with -100.

  PTI_TIME_ZONE
    Timezone used for reminder dates, for example America/New_York.

  WEB_ADMIN_USERNAME
    Website login username.

  WEB_ADMIN_PASSWORD
    Long, unique website login password.

  NODE_ENV
    Must be production on Railway.

Railway supplies PORT automatically. The application listens on that port. The
public domain should target port 8080 when Railway presents that default target.

Keep the application at one replica because Telegram long polling permits only
one active consumer for a bot token, and multiple replicas could also duplicate
scheduled reminders.


15. DATABASE AND DEPLOYMENTS
----------------------------

The production start command runs all pending database migrations before the
website and bot start. Migrations are safe to rerun and use a PostgreSQL advisory
lock to prevent concurrent execution.

The health endpoint checks both connectivity and schema readiness:

  /api/health

A healthy result includes:

  "status": "healthy"
  "database": "connected"
  "schema": "ready"

The production database is not loaded with the local sample units. Add real
units through Add Unit or Bulk Add.


16. COMMON PROBLEMS
-------------------

relation "units" does not exist
  PostgreSQL is connected, but migrations have not created the schema. Deploy
  the latest GitHub commit and confirm /api/health reports schema: ready.

chat not found
  The bot cannot access PTI_ARCHIVE_CHAT_ID. Add the current bot to the archive
  group, run /chatid, verify the Railway variable, and redeploy if the ID changed.

MESSAGE_ID_INVALID
  Telegram would not permit forwarding the original media message. Current
  versions of PTI Tagger avoid forwarding and upload media using its file ID.
  Deploy the latest version and retry the same failed media with /pti.

Reply directly to a photo or video with /pti
  The bot did not receive usable media in the replied message. Disable Group
  Privacy for the current bot, remove/re-add it, send a new photo or video, and
  reply directly with /pti. Plain text "pti" without the slash is not a command.

Bot polling conflict / error 409
  More than one instance is using the same bot token. Stop the local bot while
  Railway is running and keep Railway at one replica.

Driver displays as a dash
  Deploy the current version. The website displays the driver's first/last name
  when supplied and otherwise falls back to @username.

No Telegram message link
  The archive must be a supergroup and PTI_ARCHIVE_CHAT_ID must begin with -100.

Railway keeps serving an old commit
  Turn off Wait for CI if no GitHub Actions workflow is configured, then choose
  Deploy Latest Commit.


17. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
---------------------

1. Copy .env.example to .env.local.
2. Fill in local credentials and Telegram settings.
3. Install dependencies:

     npm install

4. Start local PostgreSQL:

     npm run db:start

5. Start the website:

     npm run dev

6. Start the bot only if the same token is not currently running on Railway:

     npm run bot

Other commands:

  npm run migrate   Apply pending database migrations.
  npm test          Run automated tests.
  npm run build     Create the production build.
  npm start         Run migrations, the production website, and the bot.

Never commit .env.local, a real Telegram token, or real production passwords.


18. NORMAL WEEKLY OPERATING FLOW
--------------------------------

1. Fleet staff opens Assigned Units.
2. Check Sent this week and Missing PTI totals.
3. Notify individual missing units or use Notify all missing.
4. Drivers/dispatchers post PTI media and reply with /pti.
5. Fleet staff opens PTI Review.
6. Review each archived photo/video.
7. Approve good submissions or request a resend with a note.
8. Monitor red Reassign rows for Inactive, Hometime, or Terminated groups.
9. Add/register replacement units when necessary.


19. DEFECTS AND MAINTENANCE
---------------------------

During PTI Review, fleet staff can add one or more defects before choosing
Save + Approve PTI or Save + Request Resend. Each defect has a category,
description, severity (Minor, Attention Needed, or Critical), and starts Open.
The Defects page filters and searches all findings. Open a defect to assign it,
change severity/status, enter resolution notes, and resolve it explicitly.

Critical is a recorded fleet decision; the software does not automatically
shut down a truck. New PTIs do not automatically resolve old defects.


20. DRIVER AND UNIT HISTORY
---------------------------

Open Drivers for driver compliance and history. Open any unit from Assigned
Units for PTIs, defects, compliance, repeat problems, and assignment history.
Use Reassign Driver on a registered unit to keep the Telegram group but change
the driver. The old assignment is closed and never overwritten. Old PTIs and
defects keep the driver snapshot recorded when they were submitted.


21. COMPLIANCE
--------------

The week is Monday through Sunday in PTI_TIME_ZONE. A PTI submitted during its
assigned week is On Time. On Time = 100 points, Late = 70, Missing = 0, and
Excused weeks are removed from the denominator. Because the first version has
no reliable way to associate a submission after Sunday with an earlier missed
week, it does not fabricate Late records; late remains zero until such a link
exists. Compliance begins only where real registration/assignment history is
available. Inactive, Hometime, and Terminated assignment periods are excluded.


22. DASHBOARD, REPORTS, AND AUDIT
---------------------------------

Dashboard shows fleet KPIs, four-week compliance, recent-week trend, open
defect categories, repeat issues, and recent activity. A repeat issue means the
same unit has at least two defects in the same category in the last eight weeks.

Reports generates a Monday-Sunday management report. Download CSV or use the
browser Print / PDF button for a management-ready copy. Audit Log records web,
Telegram, bot, and system actions without passwords, tokens, or credentials.


23. DEPLOYING THIS UPGRADE
--------------------------

No new Railway variables are required. Keep all existing variables, especially
PTI_TIME_ZONE, and keep one application replica. Push the code and let Railway
deploy normally. The existing guarded migration runner creates and backfills
drivers and assignments, adds PTI driver snapshots, then creates defects,
compliance exclusions, and audit logs. It does not delete or reset any table.

The web login now supports VIEWER, ADMIN, and SUPERADMIN accounts. Existing
WEB_ADMIN_USERNAME and WEB_ADMIN_PASSWORD bootstrap the first SUPERADMIN on the
first login. Set optional WEB_SESSION_SECRET to a long random value for a
separate session-signing key. Superadmins create, deactivate, reset, and change
roles from /admin/users. Viewer accounts are read-only; Admin and Superadmin
accounts can perform fleet operations and edit PTI reviews.

Validation commands:

  npm run migrate
  npm test
  npm run validate:fleet
  npm run build


END OF GUIDE
